Title: Inception (2010)
Director: Christopher Nolan
Genre: Sci-Fi, Thriller
Synopsis: A skilled thief who steals secrets through dream-sharing technology is offered a chance to have his past crimes forgiven if he can implant an idea into someone’s subconscious.
Cast: Leonardo DiCaprio, Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Ellen Page, Tom Hardy
Trivia: The spinning top at the end became one of the most discussed endings in modern cinema.

---

Title: The Dark Knight (2008)
Director: Christopher Nolan
Genre: Action, Crime, Drama
Synopsis: Batman faces his greatest challenge when the anarchic Joker threatens Gotham City, pushing the hero to question his own moral limits.
Cast: Christian Bale, Heath Ledger, Aaron Eckhart, Gary Oldman
Trivia: Heath Ledger won a posthumous Oscar for his role as the Joker.

---

Title: Drive (2011)
Director: Nicolas Winding Refn
Genre: Neo-Noir, Crime, Drama
Synopsis: A Hollywood stunt driver moonlights as a getaway driver, but his life spirals out of control after a botched heist.
Cast: Ryan Gosling, Carey Mulligan, Bryan Cranston
Trivia: The film’s minimalist dialogue and synth soundtrack became cult hallmarks of the neo-noir revival.

---

Title: The Matrix (1999)
Director: Lana and Lilly Wachowski
Genre: Sci-Fi, Action
Synopsis: A computer hacker discovers that reality is a simulated illusion controlled by machines and joins a rebellion to free humanity.
Cast: Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburne, Carrie-Anne Moss, Hugo Weaving
Trivia: The “bullet time” slow-motion technique revolutionized action cinematography.

---

Title: Se7en (1995)
Director: David Fincher
Genre: Crime, Thriller, Neo-Noir
Synopsis: Two detectives hunt a serial killer who bases his murders on the seven deadly sins.
Cast: Morgan Freeman, Brad Pitt, Kevin Spacey
Trivia: The studio wanted a different ending, but Fincher insisted on keeping the grim twist.

---

Title: Blade Runner 2049 (2017)
Director: Denis Villeneuve
Genre: Sci-Fi, Neo-Noir
Synopsis: A new blade runner uncovers a secret that could shake what remains of society and leads him to search for former blade runner Rick Deckard.
Cast: Ryan Gosling, Harrison Ford, Ana de Armas, Jared Leto
Trivia: The film was praised for its visual effects and world-building, earning multiple Oscars.

---

Title: Memento (2000)
Director: Christopher Nolan
Genre: Mystery, Thriller, Neo-Noir
Synopsis: A man with short-term memory loss tries to track down his wife’s killer using tattoos and Polaroid photos as clues.
Cast: Guy Pearce, Carrie-Anne Moss, Joe Pantoliano
Trivia: The story is told in reverse chronological order, mirroring the protagonist’s condition.

---

Title: Gone Girl (2014)
Director: David Fincher
Genre: Mystery, Thriller
Synopsis: When a man’s wife disappears, media frenzy turns against him as dark secrets from their marriage surface.
Cast: Ben Affleck, Rosamund Pike, Neil Patrick Harris
Trivia: Rosamund Pike received an Oscar nomination for her chilling performance.

---

Title: Oldboy (2003)
Director: Park Chan-wook
Genre: Thriller, Mystery, Neo-Noir
Synopsis: A man is mysteriously imprisoned for 15 years and then released, setting out to discover who captured him and why.
Cast: Choi Min-sik, Yoo Ji-tae, Kang Hye-jung
Trivia: The infamous hammer fight scene was filmed in one take over three days.

---

Title: Prisoners (2013)
Director: Denis Villeneuve
Genre: Crime, Thriller, Mystery
Synopsis: When two young girls go missing, a desperate father takes matters into his own hands while police pursue their own leads.
Cast: Hugh Jackman, Jake Gyllenhaal, Viola Davis, Paul Dano
Trivia: The film explores moral ambiguity through its themes of justice and vengeance.
